Have you ever heard about the violent tsunami that occurred in the Indian Ocean in 2004? This is a true story of how a family managed to survive the disaster.

Tilly Smith from the UK was ten years old at the time, and was spending her Christmas holidays with her family on Mai Khao Beach in Phuket, Thailand.

Just before Tilly went on holiday, her geography teacher gave her a project to do on tsunamis, so Tilly did some research and found out a lot of information about them.

A tsunami is a series of waves created when the water in the ocean is rapidly displaced. Underwater explosions and earthquakes have the potential to generate a tsunami.

The effects of a tsunami can range from unnoticeable to disastrous³. In the middle of the ocean, tsunami waves only raise the level of the water by a metre or two.

As the waves get closer to the coast, they get higher and sometimes they are more than 30 metres high. They are very destructive. The water picks up all the things in its path and carries them away. It is more powerful than a flood.

The first sign that a tsunami is coming is that the water starts bubbling like a fizzy drink does when you shake the
can and open it. Also, the water level can fall very quickly.

Clever Tilly saves the day!

On 26th December, Tilly was with her family at the beach. Suddenly, she noticed that the water was full of foam and starting to bubble. Then the tide went out very quickly.

Tilly realised that a tsunami was coming, so she told her mum about the danger. At first, her mum did not believe her, but her dad and sister did, so they told everyone to run. All the people who were near them ran in the direction of their hotel.

Tilly and her family watched the destruction caused by the tsunami from a balcony on the third floor of their hotel. The hotel was far enough from the beach to survive the destructive power of the three monstrous tsunami waves.

Tilly Smith became a hero. She saved the lives of a hundred people who were on the beach that day.

Summary of events The Indian Ocean earthquake reaching a magnitude⁴ of 9.1 on the Richter scale occurred on 26th December, 2004. It caused a series of devastating⁵ waves up to 30 metres high along the Asian coast in the Indian Ocean. The tsunami killed more than 225,000 people in eleven countries, and left many people homeless.

Values Empathy, Benevolence Natural disasters like tsunamis can destroy homes and take lives. How do you feel about the affected people and areas?