Time to read!
Diana loves singing. Read her diary entries to find out more about her musical experiences at school.

Thursday, 14th October
Cloudy
I'm so excited! I saw a poster advertising auditions¹ for the school musical today. Here's my big chance. I practised diligently² this evening. I know I can do it!

Friday, 15th October
Rainy
Today was my audition day. I saw my classmate Ruth outside the school hall as I waited for my turn. ‘Have you sung yet?’ I asked her. ‘Yes, I’ve already sung, but it was terrible. They didn’t let me finish!’ Ruth told me. I felt sorry for her and started to worry.
When I walked into the hall, I sang my chosen song. It went smoothly and the judges were all smiling when I finished. Then one of the judges gave me a musical score³. It was for a song called ‘Music from the inside’. ‘Have you ever heard this song before?’ he asked. ‘No, I haven’t,’ I replied. He told me to come back to the hall in an hour.
I went into the music room and studied the score carefully. I tried to sing the song, but it was difficult. I could only sing the melody⁴. I didn’t know what to do and burst into tears⁵. But then I remembered how our music teacher taught us to sing. We sang the melody first, then the words. Our teacher repeated the same part many times until we knew the melody. Finally, we read and sang the song. So I looked at the score in my hand again and sang the melody line by line. It was a beautiful song. It became easier after singing it a few times. After that, I read and then sang the words.

Before returning to the school hall, I closed my eyes and imagined singing the song to the judges. I saw them smile and clap their hands! I was still nervous when I walked onto the stage, but I was ready. ‘Have you practised the song yet?’ the same judge asked me. ‘Yes, I’ve just practised it,’ I replied confidently⁶.
Then I took a deep breath and started to sing.
Music from the inside,
The words you’ve never tried.
Let the music be free,
For all the world to see!
Music from the inside,
You should never hide.
Don’t be sad,
Cheer up and be glad!
Let music from the inside,
Ring out and be your guide!

When I finished, everyone in the hall clapped and cheered. It was amazing! The judges have not announced the results yet, but I’m confident that I’ll be in the musical.

Values Diligence, Commitment
Diana loves musicals and practises hard for the audition. Imagine you have a music performance. How do you prepare for it?

Dictionary skill — Suffixes
Suffixes are usually a group of letters that are added to the end of a word to make another word.
-ful suffix
1 beauty → beautiful• describes things having beauty
‘This song is beautiful’.
2 spoon → spoonful• describes the amount that a spoon holds
‘She put three spoonfuls of sugar in her tea’.