This situation lasted for a very long time. Even when Richard became king, more than a hundred years after the arrival of Duke William, there was still a great deal of hatred between the two races.
Richard Cœur de Lion, as his name suggests, was a brave and noble man. He loved danger; he loved brave men and noble deeds. He hated all mean and cruel acts, and the cowards who did them. He was always ready to help the weak against the strong, and if he had stayed in England after he became king, he might have done much good. He might have taught the proud Norman nobles that true nobility lies in being kind and gentle to those less strong and less fortunate than ourselves, and not in fierceness and cruelty.
Yet Richard himself was neither meek nor gentle. In fact, he was very fierce and terrifying in battle. He loved to fight against people who were stronger or better armed than he was. He would have been ashamed to hurt the weak and feeble.
 But Richard did not stay in England. He believed he must either rule his kingdom at home or sail across the sea to protect the city of his Lord. Far, far over the seas lies a country called Palestine. There, our Lord was born, lived, and died. Christians of all eras must think tenderly and gratefully of that far-off country. But at this time, it had fallen into the hands of those they considered heathens. It seemed to Christian people in those days that it would be a terrible sin to allow heathens to live in the Holy Land. So, they gathered great armies of brave men from every country in the world and sent them to try to win it back. Many brave deeds were done, and many terrible battles fought, but still the heathens kept possession. Then brave King Richard of England said he too would fight for the city of our Lord. So, he gathered as much money as he could find, and as many brave men as would follow him, and set out for the Holy Land. Before he went away, he called two bishops who he thought were good and wise men, and said to them, ‘Take care of England while I am gone. Rule my people wisely and well, and I will reward you when I return.’ The bishops promised to do as he asked. Then he said farewell and sailed away.